###09.17.2016

OK, closing out another week of my Visual Design course. I learned about creative briefs and wrote one for the coffee shop
project. I also learned that the title "designer" should never follow my name. I'm REALLY excited to be going back to 
development soon. Here's the creative brief for my hipster coffee shop:

PROJECT SCOPE

What is the project?  
Design a brand and identity designs for a new local coffee shop.

What skills does your client need?   
A plan and design for the coffee shop’s personality, target audience, mission statement, a set of identity designs, and a style guide.

How will the final deliverables(s) be used?  
The color scheme, typescale, imagery, logo, icons, social media header, and brand style guide will be used for a company website, print menus and flyers, signage, online and print promotions.

PROJECT GOALS

What are the objectives of the project?  
To design and develop the brand identity for this local coffee shop, including brand personality, mission statement, target audience, logo, colors, typography, imagery, icons, and social media header, and brand style guide.

What does success look like to your client?  
Success to my client means understanding who her target audience is, what their mission statement is, and having a complete brand identity that matches her vision of a welcoming, local, organic shop atmosphere that attracts her ideal customers.

YOUR CLIENT

Who is your client and what does his or her company do?  
My client is a neighborhood local who wants to see her community continue to grow and thrive. She hopes to fulfill this desire by using coffee from local roasters and appealing to those in the community as customers.

TARGET AUDIENCE

What are the demographics of the ideal customers?  
The ideal customers are young professionals who live and work the neighborhood. It will also appeal to families who may stop in on the weekends.

COMPETITION

Who is the competition?   
There is a Starbucks right down the street.

Are there any anticipated competitors in the near term?  
There are plenty of chain coffee shops in the area, but none that are focused on providing a local product.

LOOK & FEEL

What is the overall brand image?  
The brand image is welcoming with a genuine commitment to the community.

What is the brand personality, mood, and tone?  
The brand personality is sophisticated but has natural and organic feeling undertones. The tone is bright and warm.

BUDGET

Did you discuss your hourly rate and estimated time for the project with your client? And, did they accept it?  
Yes, an hourly rate was established and the timeline was reviewed with the client. She agreed to the terms.

Are there any additional expenses (e.g., printing or web development fees) the project will require?  
I also provided a quote for development of a website to implement the brand and identity design. If promotional flyers are desired, the client understands additional fees apply.

DELIVERABLES

What are you delivering to your client and how?  
I will provide the following as both PDFs and original Adobe files:  
Brand personality profile  
Target audience profile  
Mission statement  
Color scheme  
Typescale  
Collection of brand images  
Logo  
Icon pair  
Social media header  
Brand style guide  

SCHEDULE

What is the project timeline?   
The project timeline is one month.

When are milestone tasks due?  
Estimated completion time for the tasks are listed below:  
Brand personality profile - completed  
Target audience profile - completed  
Mission statement - completed  
Color scheme - by next week   
Typescale - by next week  
Logo - by next week  
Image collection - in 2 weeks  
Icons - in 2 weeks  
Social media header - in 2 weeks  
Brand style guide - in 2 weeks  
